## Overview
After finding out most people only wear 20% of their closet regularly my teammates and I made a fullstack app to generate unique and accurate outfit suggestions based on user uploaded images of clothing items.

## How it Works
Recommendations are generated by text-to-text semantic search. We used Gemini-2.5-flash to processes the image to extract a name, clothing category, and keyword text description. These descriptions are embedded with a sentence transformer and vectors are cached in a Mongo database for fast retrieval and similarity search using cosine similarity. Users can filter, and delete clothing items. It also handles custom image naming and background removal automatically.

## Tech
- Frontend: `Next.js 14` with `React`, `Tailwind` CSS, and Figma-designed wireframes
- Backend: `FastAPI` (Python)
- Database: `MongoDB` with vector collections
- AI/ML Pipeline: `Gemini API` + Sentence Transformers + `PyTorch`

## Challenges
We struggled trying to find a way to search semantically between images and text in the same vector space. After experimenting with CLIP and similar models we found some models were embedding images with low-level image features, like similar RGB values, rather than semantic meaning of clothing. We realised we got better results searching text to text so we added a layer of data extraction from clothing images. It was also important that images would be stored and uploaded efficiently. We tried different approaches, including Base64-encoded strings, direct URIs, and cloud storage solutions like S3 and Supabase.

## Takeaways
After making this project my teamates and I were happy to have built out a complete wardrobe management and outfit generation experience. From setting up the database, frontend, and backend server to figuring out how to structure and connect them I learned more about full-stack development. We also got to apply concepts from Linear Algebra directly to solve  real problems, such as computing cosine similarity between vector embeddings for outfit recommendations. I also came to appreciate the importance of fast data preprocessing, embedding caching, and efficient query handling to maintain a good user experience.